I'm Lynn Goldstein a registered
dietician sugar it's sweet and simple
right well no there's a lot more to the
sweet stuff than you'd think more and
less raw sugar honey table sugar brown
sugar molasses cane juice malt syrup
high fructose corn syrup glucose
fructose sucrose dextrose these are all
different forms of sugar high in
calories and low in nutrients so what's
the lowdown on the sugar high sugar is
the essential energy source we need to
live in particular glucose the simplest
form of sugar is our body's preferred
fuel it's what our cells burn most of
our glucose comes from the carbohydrates
we eat there are two kinds of
carbohydrates complex carbs include
whole-grain breads and cereals and
starchy vegetables many complex
carbohydrates are good sources of fiber
and other nutrients along with all that
energy simple carbs include sugars found
naturally in foods like honey fruits
vegetables and dairy products simple
carbs also include sugars added during
food processing and those are the ones
to avoid which is not so easy to do
that's because the American diet
includes more refined foods than ever
before and too many of us are mainlining
sugar as a result that's because all the
places manufacturers hide sugar in their
foods edit sugar is everywhere in lots
of different forms table sugar or
sucrose is a combination of fructose and
glucose which are both simple sugars
produced naturally by plants
what about high-fructose corn syrup now
there's no naturally occurring fructose
in corn but in the 1950s scientists
found a way to transform the glucose in
corn into fructose the resulting mixture
is 90% fructose which is very sweet the
benefit of high fructose corn syrup is
that it's cheaper and dissolves more
easily in liquid than table sugar does
also high fructose corn syrup acts as a
preservative these qualities make high
fructose corn syrup very attractive to
food manufacturers especially as an
ingredient in many sweetened drinks like
sodas and other processed foods but
there have been growing concerns about
the role high fructose corn syrup plays
and encouraging obesity some studies
suggest that drinking calories is more
likely to cause a weight gain than
eating the same amount of calories from
solid foods this may be because liquid
calories are not as satisfying as
calories from solid food so people tend
to overdo it the American Heart
Association recommends that most
American women should consume no more
than a hundred calories a day from added
sugar and for men no more than 150
calories a day that's about 6 teaspoons
of added sugar for women and 9 for men
to give you an idea of what that really
means 1 12 ounce can of sweet and soft
drink contains 8 teaspoons of added
sugar for about 130 calories that's
already near or over the recommended
daily limit in fact most Americans get
more than 22 teaspoons of added sugar a
day or 355 calories way beyond both the
USDA guidelines and the American Heart
Association recommendations here's what
I tell my patients cut down on the added
sugar in your diet and keep your eye on
maintaining a healthy weight by doing
that you'll lower your risk for serious
conditions like type-2 diabetes high
blood pressure cardiovascular disease
and even tooth decay now that's sweet